{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 What is the difference between a hypocrite and a backsliding Christian?\par
Profile photo for Dejaleesa Robinson\par
Dejaleesa Robinson\par
Security Officer and Veterinary Assistant4y\par
First, let us breakdown these two words Hypocrite and Backsliding then see the true difference.\par
\par
Hypocrite: A person who pretends to be what he is not; a person whose actions are out of harmony with his words. Someone who hides his bad motives behind a mask of sincerity denoting a stage actor. In time, the word came to refer to anyone who was simply putting on an act in order to deceive others.\par
\par
Backsliding: The action of relapsing into bad ways or error and the falling away and or committing apostasy.\par
\par
A Hypocrite is one playing false, or one putting on a pretense whether spiritually, physically or communicably. This type of person knows they are being this way.\par
\par
Backsliding is the process by which an individual who has converted to Christianity or a Belief reverts to pre-conversion habits and then laps and or falls into sin or ways contrary to belief turning away from God to pursue their own desire. This type of person is slowly drifting away and cannot see it and if left unchecked slowly regresses into personal/sinful desires\par
Sara Stone\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
Faith in Christ is a Gift from God so that None May Boast4y\par
Jesus didn\rquote t disown the backsliders, though he rebuked churches who had taken on the responsibility of helping shape the attitudes and approaches of people who had fallen in love with Jesus.\par
\par
But he DID rebuke and cast down the hypocrites\'85\par
\par
What\rquote s the difference? Backsliders are struggling with sin\'85 they opted to sin instead of stay the course and are beginning to pull up cloaks of comfort to put artificial salve in their bad feelings that are coming from their sinning.\par
\par
HYPOCRITES are out enjoying sin while barking at you what you should do to enjoy a righteous life.\par
\par
One understands they are under judgement, the other, thinks they are above. Boo on them. May 2020 see all SORTS of these guys and gals EXPOSED\par
Follow\par
Former lawyer. Elder in Church of Scotland.7y\par
Related\par
Since a religion like Christianity isn't well defined and open to interpretation, how can you tell the differences between a true follower and a hypocrite?\par
A2A. Wouldn't it be lovely if we could see into other people's hearts and minds! There isn't a single definitive answer to this question I'm afraid. But I can give you my take on it.\par
Someone who is a true follower of Christ isn't afraid of being unpopular with their fellow human beings. That's not the same thing as not caring about humans, of course. But it does mean that, when people treat them unfairly they are more likely to turn the other cheek than seek revenge. When people are in trouble they are likely to try to help, regardless of that person's creed or colour. The Samaritan of the famous parable was, after all, a sworn enemy of the Jews. They are less likely to pursue material goods and worldly success because they realise that these things don't necessarily lead to abundant life. If they go off on their own to spend quiet time with God, they are likely to be true followers. If you discover from a third party that they have devoted time, money or other resources to some charitable cause, but they have never, themselves, mentioned it, it's likely that they are a true follower.\par
If, on the other hand, the first thing they tell you is all the good stuff they have done, if you feel judged, if you feel excluded, if you discern arrogance, then it may be the person in question is less true believer and more hypocrite.\par
But then, of course, who among us is perfect?\par
\par
410 views\par
View 9 upvotes\par
Answer requested by \par
Justice Muigai\par
1 of 17 answers\par
Sponsored by Mutual of Omaha\par
Want a Medicare plan that lets you keep your doctor?\par
Use our free Advice Center to get answers to your questions and find the right Medicare plan for you.\par
Profile photo for Stephen Sibbald\par
Stephen Sibbald\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
Christian, geek, veteran, grandfather.Updated 7y\par
Related\par
Since a religion like Christianity isn't well defined and open to interpretation, how can you tell the differences between a true follower and a hypocrite?\par
Christianity is well-defined. It is just such a broad and popular religion that there are many questions that are still being debated. Does the host trans-substantiate? Do orthodox patriarchs have apostolic succession? These are undecided questions, but they do not make Christianity ill-defined. As Stephen Frantz said, Christianity boils down to three beliefs: the Trinity, the incarnation, and atonement. You would find widespread, almost universal agreement on these points in Christendom.\par
\par
How can you tell a hypocrite? You probably can\rquote t; nor can I. This is a very dangerous question, as it calls us to judge the sincerity, strength and truth of others\rquote  faith. Careful assessment of actions measures both faith and self-discipline. Sometimes we believe something firmly but fail to act on that belief. We are all fallen; we all continue to sin; we are like the man in Mark 9:24 who says, \ldblquote I do believe; help me overcome my unbelief!\rdblquote  Read Paul\rquote s cry for help in Romans 7:15: \ldblquote I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do I do not do, but what I hate I do.\rdblquote  Then consider if sinful actions reveal an unsaved person.\par
\par
You should not even try to tell the difference. Jesus has clearly commanded us in Matthew 7:1 not to judge others! Don\rquote t worry about hypocrites \f1\emdash  take people at their word and assume the best \emdash  and be far more concerned about the state of your own heart and faith. Find glory in God\rquote s grace, not in your (or anyone else\rquote s) righteousness.\par
\par
329 views\par
View 10 upvotes\par
Answer requested by \par
Justice Muigai\par
1 of 17 answers\par
\par
SIOOLTD\par
Sponsored\par
Men's Cashmere Zipper Basic Sweater.\par
Experience the perfect blend of warmth and elegance in our men's cashmere zip-up sweater.\par
Profile photo for Alouette de Mer\par
Alouette de Mer\par
 \f0\'b7 \par
Follow\par
Studied Government & Geopolitics at Nicholls State University5y\par
Related\par
Why are so many Christians complete hypocrites?\par
Christianity was not begun by Jesus. Jesus was never called \ldblquote Christ.\rdblquote  It was begun by a collusion of the Church of Rome and the Roman Empire in the early 4th. Century A.D. When the emperor Constantine convened the Nicene Council, and when that council produced the creed of Christianity, that\rquote s when Christianity began. And that\rquote s when the Church of Rome became the Roman Catholic Church\'85the universal church of the Roman Empire. By legalizing the belief in the Empire, the closeted pagan believers in Europe could come out of the closet\'85so then they could be taxed by Rome, and by the Church in the form of tithes. So Christianity has nothing at all to do with Jesus, God, or salvation. It is a political movement and not a spiritual belief, with its roots in Babylonian Satan worship, human sacrifice, and formed in the dying days of the Roman Empire. Rome wanted to tax the Church of Rome, the Pope said no to that, and Christianity was the compromise. Rome lives on via the Vatican. Why do you think the leader of Christianity\'85the Pope\'85is named Pontifex Maximus, a title reserved only to a Caesar? And that is why so many Christians are hypocrites. Their religion is rooted in horrific evil. Christianity has murdered more innocent people than other organization in history. And it is so exclusionary it breeds hypocrites. I suppose they forget Jesus\rquote s message was one of inclusion and not exclusion. But by their very nature religions must be exclusive. Christianity (read: Roman Catholicism) is designed to separate people from their humanity (which is deemed sinful), and fill the void with Church dogma solely centered on control, fear, and fleecing people of their money. Salvation for sale.\par
\par
4.8K views\par
View 51 upvotes\par
View 1 share\par
1 of 21 answers\par
Sponsored by Raid: Shadow Legends\par
If you have a computer this game is a must-have\par
Download for free and use a free gift code: GETLOKI\par
Profile photo for James Hough\par
James Hough\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
Catholic who teaches Catechism, RCIA, and Prayer classes.7y\par
Related\par
Since a religion like Christianity isn't well defined and open to interpretation, how can you tell the differences between a true follower and a hypocrite?\par
Christianity is THE most defined religion on the planet! The Holy Office, now called the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, does nothing else but answer questions when there is some misunderstanding of the faith. In extreme cases, entire Ecumenical Councils have done this: witness everything from First Niceae to Vatican Council I.\par
\par
As far as telling a \ldblquote true follower and a[n] hypocrite\rdblquote . Well, first of all, is that your place? We are to judge, IF God has asked us to: for instance, if you are a teacher of the faith, you must make judgment calls on the individuals understanding of the faith and living it out in their life. If you are a parent, you are most definitely tasked by God to discern whether your child is being an hypocrite.\par
\par
How do you do this? Well, first of all, you, yourself, must be leading a good Christian life. You need to be praying each day, learning about God each day, receiving the sacraments of Confession and the Most Holy Eucharist frequently, etc.\par
\par
THEN, and only then, (remember the Biblical admonition to remove the plank from your own eye before attempting the splinter in your brother\rquote s?) you need to direct your child, your friend, spouse, or whoever it is for whom you are responsible.\par
\par
Without personal holiness, this becomes extremely difficult if not impossible. If you, yourself, are not leading a good Christian life, 1) you have no credentials to be giving advice, and 2) you would be hard-pressed to recognize an hypocrite if you can\rquote t recognize the one in the mirror!\par
\par
194 views\par
View 8 upvotes\par
Answer requested by \par
Justice Muigai\par
1 of 17 answers\par
\par
Mutual of Omaha\par
Sponsored\par
Have Medicare questions? We have answers.\par
Use our free Advice Center to get answers to your questions and find the right Medicare plan for you.\par
Profile photo for Amy Chai\par
Amy Chai\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
MD, Internal Medicine, MS, Epidemiology, authorJun 11\par
Related\par
Why is there so much hypocrisy in the Christian church?\par
In order for hypocrisy to exist\f1\emdash standards must first exist. When standards are high, people will always fall short. Hence, we get a very idealized way of living which is rarely fully realized.\par
\par
One form of hypocrisy is \ldblquote pretending\rdblquote  that you consistently conform to your own ideals. Of course nobody can do that. That is why people who pretend perfection have failed to understand the entire point of the Christian faith: perfection is not possible. If it were, Christ would never have needed to die for our redemption. So failure to live up to your ideals should provoke confession, not faking perfection. But there will always be people who are too proud to admit that they aren\rquote t perfect. The only problem is that we all see it. Nobody is getting away with anything and it just makes people look like hypocrites.\par
\par
The other form of hypocrisy is people who accuse Christians of being hypocrites when they themselves have a different moral code. They simply accuse Christians of \ldblquote hypocrisy\rdblquote  because\emdash well\emdash they hate Christians. Usually, these people are also completely self-righteous, and also unable to see their own hypocrisy. These people are those who claim to be welcoming and inclusive to ALL! Unless you are pro-life, or vote conservative, of course. Then it is fine to cut off all contact with them and wish death upon them.\par
\par
Some of the latter hypocrites would also call themselves Christian, but are so keen on being popular in society that they will compromise every belief they ever had and distance themselves from anyone who doesn\rquote t. Much like Peter, these individuals are guilty of hypocrisy plus betrayal.\par
\par
Most Christians don\rquote t expect other people to live by Christian values. To believe that something is wrong does not mean you hate or condemn anyone who does that thing. But some things are bigger than personal choice. Let\rquote s say shooting dogs like Christie Noam. You may hate shooting dogs, but that doesn\rquote t mean you hate Christie. You would not shoot YOUR dog. But you would not demonize someone who did. She had a good reason for putting down the dog. You might disagree and say she could buy training for a few thousand dollars to rehabilitate the dog. You might try to make putting animals down against the law without a trial of animal training. That is politics. Much like the pro-life movement. So emotional issues like that can become contentious. But every person tries to enact laws that follow their own beliefs of what is moral and what isn\rquote t.\par
\par
That example of political ideas and activism is going to get harder and harder to deal with as society becomes more diverse and people see everything differently. But that is not \ldblquote hypocrisy,\rdblquote  though it is often called \ldblquote hypocrisy\rdblquote  when Christians vote for normative societal values. Why isn\rquote t it seen as \ldblquote hypocrisy\rdblquote  when other groups vote according to THEIR beliefs? Everyone believes something.\par
\par
Hypocrisy is universal. Hypocrisy is difficult to see in yourself, but easy to see in others.\par
\par
The OP may well have asked, \ldblquote Why am I so hypocritical? I pretend I don\rquote t go to church because of all the hypocrites, but actually it is because I don\rquote t want to face my own demons,\rdblquote  That is hypocrisy, too.\par
\par
I can be a hypocrite myself. This is particularly salient in my work as a physician. I tell people what they should be doing, but yet I do not do it myself. I\rquote m often called upon to totally admit I am just as much of a lazy SOB as any of my patients. The struggle is real.\par
\par
4K views\par
View 139 upvotes\par
1 of 23 answers\par
Sponsored by Interactive Brokers\par
Interactive Brokers\f0\'ae. Rated #1 Broker by Barron's.\par
Over 2 million investors in 200+ countries trade on 150+ global exchanges in up to 27 currencies.\par
Profile photo for Chris Tweedy\par
Chris Tweedy\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
69 years without being convinced of the existence of gods1y\par
Related\par
Why are so many Christians complete hypocrites?\par
To put it into Christian terms, it is because they lack the Grace of God. They lack this because their belief is a sham. If they were real believers, they would strive constantly to walk in the footsteps of Christ, instead of just talking about how they \ldblquote totally do that\rdblquote , while simultaneously judging others. They use the bible as a bludgeon to try to force people to believe as they do, even though their own belief is wanting.\par
\par
They shout \ldblquote Repent!\rdblquote , but refuse to repent, or even to acknowledge their failure as decent humans.\par
\par
They use the bible to validate their hate, but fail to embrace the message of love.\par
\par
1.5K views\par
View 31 upvotes\par
1 of 21 answers\par
\par
SIOOLTD\par
Sponsored\par
Men's Vintage Premium Washed Long Sleeve Shirt.\par
Experience the perfect combination of comfort and elegance with our meticulously crafted shirts.\par
Profile photo for Marc Lawrence\par
Marc Lawrence\par
 \'b7 \par
Follow\par
Christian ministerJan 23\par
Related\par
Why are so many Christians complete hypocrites?\par
Because the majority of \ldblquote Christians\rdblquote  are such in name only, that is, they might claim to be Christian, but they don't meet the qualifications and requirements thereof; they're not doing what Jesus told them to do, basically.\par
\par
\par
No, he didn't\par
\par
Being a Christian is not easy. It's difficult. Jesus warned those who would follow him to first count the cost for that reason. (Luke 13:25-33)\par
\par
He also foretold that the larger number of people declaring themselves his followers would actually be rejected by him, because they weren't doing what he commanded. (Matthew 7:13-23; 28:19, 20; John 14:21)\par
\par
\par
Fake Christianity, a moribund, dead faith that impels the person to do absolutely nothing, is the norm. The average Christian actually does nothing Christian at all, and in many cases is worse than unbelievers, because the unbelievers aren't claiming to love and follow Jesus, only to deny him with their actions, or, more acutely, the lack thereof.\par
\par
Faith, without action, is dead. (James 2:24, 26) If you call yourself a Christian but are in all other ways indistinguishable from the unbelievers, what value have your professions of faith?\par
\par
JW.org\par
\par
2.9K views\par
View 80 upvotes\par
View 1 share\par
1 of 21 answers\par
\par
Interactive Brokers\par
Sponsored\par
Interactive Brokers\'ae. Rated #1 Broker by Barron's.\par
Over 2 million investors in 200+ countries trade on 150+ global exchanges in up to 27 currencies.\par
}
 